Add FuzzBinder  cmd line tool (#168)
project-oak/transparent-release: cmd/fuzzbinder/README.md

# Fuzzing Claims for revisions of a source code

> The goal of Fuzzbinder is to generated, sign and publish in a transparency log fuzzing claims for revisions of the source code of a given project to endorse their security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of Fuzzbinder is to generate, sign and publish in a transparency log fuzzing claims for revisions of the source code of a given project.
```

The endorsement is a separate step :)

If you have not already done so, consult the [`development guidelines`](./../../docs/development-guidelines.md) to find out what you need to
install before following the steps below.

### 1) Establish access to GCS

To get the fuzzing statistics, you should have access to the fuzzing metadata generated by OSS-Fuzz and ClusterFuzz for your project. Set up `gsutil` and ensure that you have access to the fuzzing metadata by doing the following:

- Install the [gsutil tool](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/gsutil_install).
- Check whether you have access to the fuzzing logs and coverage reports of your project:

```sh
$ gsutil ls gs://oss-fuzz-coverage/${PROJECT_NAME}
```

```sh
$ gsutil ls gs://${PROJECT_NAME}-logs.clusterfuzz-external.appspot.com
```

If you get an authorization error from the commands above, run the following commands:

```sh
$ gcloud auth application-default login
```

```sh
$ gcloud auth login
```

If you still have authentication problems look at this [authentication guide](https://googleapis.dev/python/google-api-core/latest/auth.html) and try again. Once `gsutil` works, you can run the fuzzing claim generation command.

### 2) Generate fuzzing claim

> The [`fuzzbinder`](/internal/fuzzbinder/) package provides functionality for generating a fuzzing claim file.

Reviewer: Is this path correct? I am not sure how absolute paths work on GitHub.

Reviewer: Also, `internal/fuzzbinder` is internal implementation details. The user should not need to know about this. If you want to keep it, I suggest you move it to the end of the document, as a note for further info.

Author: The path is correct. However, I removed it since it is not relevant for the how-to document as you mentioned.

To generate a fuzzing claim run:

```sh
$ go run cmd/fuzzbinder/main.go -project_name <project-name> \

>    -homepage <path-to-project-git-repo-root>  \

Reviewer: Rename homepage to `git-repo`. Also elsewhere :)

Author: done

  -fuzzengine <fuzzing-engine> -sanitizer <fuzzing-sanitizer>  \
  -date <fuzzing-date> -fuzzclaim_path <fuzzclaim-path>
```

> As you may noticed, you will need `<fuzzing-engine>` and `<fuzzing-sanitizer>` that you used in your OSS-Fuzz project configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you may have noticed, you will need `<fuzzing-engine>` and `<fuzzing-sanitizer>` that you used in your OSS-Fuzz project configuration.
```

> For instance, if you used `libfuzzer` as a fuzzing engine and an `address sanitizer` for your project, and you want to generate a fuzzing claim

Reviewer: Some of this info should be included in the help string of the command flags. Please see my comments on that.

# Fuzzing Claims for revisions of a source code

The goal of Fuzzbinder is to generate, sign and publish (in a transparency log) fuzzing claims for revisions of the source code of a given project.

By following the steps described below, you will be able to generate fuzzing claims for your open-source project using the fuzzing reports generated by OSS-Fuzz and ClusterFuzz for your project, and the command line tool
[`cmd/fuzzbinder`](/cmd/fuzzbinder/) that we have provided to generate fuzzing claims.

## Generating fuzzing claims using the `cmd/fuzzbinder` tool

If you have not already done so, consult the [`development guidelines`](./../../docs/development-guidelines.md) to find out what you need to install before following the steps below.

> ### Step 1: Establish access to Google Cloud Storage

Reviewer: I suggest you split this into 3 steps:

Step 1: Get access to ClusterFuzz crash reports and fuzzer statistics 
See https://google.github.io/oss-fuzz/getting-started/new-project-guide/#primary

Step 2 (optional): install google cloud sdk

Step 3: Authenticate to google cloud

Author: Thanks! I updated it. However, I don't see why step two is optional. Unless the user does not want to test that they have access to the buckets before generating the claims they need gsutil, right?

Reviewer: Yes. It is optional if it is installed from before.

- Install the [gsutil tool](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/gsutil_install).
- Check whether you have access to the coverage reports and the fuzzing logs  of your project:

```sh
$ gsutil ls gs://oss-fuzz-coverage/${PROJECT_NAME}
```

```sh
$ gsutil ls gs://${PROJECT_NAME}-logs.clusterfuzz-external.appspot.com
```

Note that the coverage reports in `gs://oss-fuzz-coverage` are public. However, you need to be a primary_contact or an auto_cc for the project for which you want to generate fuzzing claims to have access to the fuzzing logs in `gs://${PROJECT_NAME}-logs.clusterfuzz-external.appspot.com` of that project. If you are not sure whether you are a primary_contact or an auto_cc for the project, see this [OSS-Fuzz documentation](https://google.github.io/oss-fuzz/getting-started/new-project-guide/#primary) for more details.

If you are a primary_contact or an auto_cc and you get an authorization error from the commands above, run the following commands:

```sh
$ gcloud auth application-default login
```

> 

Reviewer: It he next step required too?

Also, to complete the command above you have to follow a link to a browser and copy the token. Is not there a better way to authenticate?

Author: > Is the next step required too?

I agree, I did tests and the next step is not required. 

> Also, to complete the command above you have to follow a link to a browser and copy the token. Is not there a better way to authenticate?

I just had to connect via email in my tests. This is the command to run in [this documentation](https://googleapis.dev/python/google-api-core/latest/auth.html) for authentication. I linked this in this readme also for more details. However, I don't think that they mention something simpler.
